.TH dt  "1" "2008-12-30" ""
.SH NAME
dt \- distributed tools

.SH SYNOPSIS

dt [options] <search_pattern> <command> [arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Distributed tools, aka dtools is a suite of programs to manage remotely
a number of UNIX systems across SSH connection.

The \fPdt\fP command is the main frontend for Distributed Tools. The \fPdt\fP
command allows you to execute the \fIcommand\fP passed as argument in the host
list identified by \fIsearch_pattern\fP.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h\ <command|pattern>, \-\-help <command|pattern>
Print help about command or pattern passed as argument.

.TP
.B \-D <database>, \-\-db <database>
Use the file named database as dt database instead of default one (check
\fPFILES\fP below for more information about default files.

.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pretend
Pretend the command execution, do not really. Its\'s usefull to check the
affected hosts. Similar to command list.

.TP
.B \-C <coprocs>, \-\-coproc <coprocs>
By default dt works in parallel over five hosts using coprocesses, but if you
can using other number of coprocesses setting the properly integer value to
this option.

.TP
.B \-T <seconds>, \-\-timeout <seconds>
Set the timeout for ssh connections in dtools, by default dtools uses the
timeout specified in user's ssh options.

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interactive
Interactive mode, it\'s an alias to \-C 0, that is, do not use any
coprocess. This is usefull (and mandatory) when command require user input.

.TP
.B \-N, \-\-no\-color
Supress color output always.


.SH SEARCH PATTERN
The host patterns using in \fPdt\fP is a filter function which operates over
the dtools datase, which contains the list of hosts and, usually, a number
of tags. The core patterns including are:

.TP
.B sys:<host>[,<host>]+
Performs the command to hosts passed as argument of sys pattern

.TP
.B exp:<regex>
Performs to hosts which match to the specified regexp(7) on dtools database.

.TP
.B tag:<tagop>
Performs to host which match to the specified tag operation on dtools
database. You can read more aboyt tag operatons in \fPTAG OPERATIONS\fP
section of this manual.

.TP
.B nil:[anything]
Always return a null list of hosts, any argument is ignored too. This is
only usefull for testing cases.

.TP
.B out::
Return the list of hosts passed via stdin to the \fPdt\fP process.

.SH COMMANDS
The COMMANDS section in this manual is no longer available, please use
reference in dt \-h <command>.

.SH TAG OPERATIONS
Tags are labels in hosts. You can set a number of tags to a host using
the \fItag\fP command.

You can operate with tags, with normal operations: AND, OR, MINUS:

.IP \fItag1,tag2:\fI
	Return the values which match with tag1 OR tag2.

.IP \fItag1,+tag2:\fI
	Return the values which match with tag1 AND tag2.

.IP \fItag1,\-tag2:\fI
	Return the values which match with tag1 AND NOT tag2


.SH FILTERING
By default the \fPdt\fP output format is OMNI compatible, it\'s easy to parse
and easy to read by humans, but in some situations (for example when command
returns a long number of lines) we need other format to keep the results
human\-readable. So, for that situations, you can filtering the output using
a single pipeline. Read man pages about dtstatus(1) and dthost(1) for more
information.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Add new host to the database:
.B dt sys:hostname add

.TP
Tag the host called "hostname" with tag "tag1":
.B dt sys:hostname add tag1

.TP
Populate your public key (keeping in ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub) to host called "hostname":
.B dt sys:hostname ssh-copy-id ~/.ssh/rsa_pub

.TP
Display the memory status of hosts tagged with tag "tag1":
.B dt tag:tag1 ssh free

.TP
Paginate the last command
.B dt tag:tag1 ssh free | dthost

.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fIdt\fP returns zero when command is sucessfully running, or other value
when error. The error code 2 means an error with arguments, and the value
3 means an error in module. Finally when interrupt signal is handled, then
return with code 130.

.SH OUTPUT

.TP
The output uses the OMNI format, which is, in brief:
.B {okay|fail}::dt:<command>:<host>:<message>

.TP
It\'s easy to parse with cut(1) and awk(1). The new line symbol in output is scaped.

.SH FILES

.TP
.B ~/.dtdb
This file is used as master host database for \fPdt\fP.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DTOOLS_LIB
By default \fPdt\fP search for command modules in /usr/lib/dtools
directory, but if this variable is present, search in the path provide
as content.

.SH RELATED PROJECTS

.TP
.B PyDSH
\fI\%http://pydsh.sourceforge.net/index.php

.TP
.B DCMD
\fI\%http://sourceforge.net/projects/dcmd

.TP
.B DSH
\fI\%http://sourceforge.net/projects/dsh

.TP
.B DSSH
\fI\%http://dssh.subverted.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
ssh(1), ssh\-keyscan(1), dtcli(1), dtstatus(1), dthost(1), dtdb(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Andres J. Diaz <ajdiaz@connectical.com>

