.TH dtsh "1" "2011-02-25" ""
.SH NAME
dthost \- distributed tools

.nr rst2man-indent-level 0
.
.de1 rstReportMargin
\\$1 \\n[an-margin]
level \\n[rst2man-indent-level]
level magin: \\n[rst2man-indent\\n[rst2man-indent-level]]
-
\\n[rst2man-indent0]
\\n[rst2man-indent1]
\\n[rst2man-indent2]
..
.de1 INDENT
.\" .rstReportMargin pre:
. RS \\$1
. nr rst2man-indent\\n[rst2man-indent-level] \\n[an-margin]
. nr rst2man-indent-level +1
.\" .rstReportMargin post:
..
.de UNINDENT
. RE
.\" indent \\n[an-margin]
.\" old: \\n[rst2man-indent\\n[rst2man-indent-level]]
.nr rst2man-indent-level -1
.\" new: \\n[rst2man-indent\\n[rst2man-indent-level]]
.in \\n[rst2man-indent\\n[rst2man-indent-level]]u
..

.SH SYNOPSIS
.INDENT 0.0
.INDENT 3.5
dtsh [pattern]

.UNINDENT
.UNINDENT

.SH DESCRIPTION
dtsh is a interactive shell to manage a number of hosts, which match the
pattern passed as argument to dtsh, or defined via the \fPcontext\fP
command. (See COMMANDS).

.SH COMMANDS
When invoked dtsh open an interactive shell, the commands writed in that
shell will be executed via dt(1), using the context. The context is
a pattern to be used by dt to resolve the affected hosts. This pattern is
the same that you can use calling dt directly.
.P
There are also a number of local commands. If a command starts with ".",
":" or "@" character, then will be interpreted as interal commands. Current
internal commands are:

.TP
.B context <context>
Change the context. For example:
.nf
:context tag:thistag
.TP
.B dtoptions <options>
Add options to dt. For example:
.nf
:dtoptions "-N"
.TP
.B filter <filter>
Set the OMNI parser to use to filter the dt output. By default use
dtcompact(1). Available parsers are: host (dthost), compact (dtcompact),
status(dtstatus). For example:
.nf
:filter host

.SH SEE ALSO
.INDENT 0.0
.INDENT 3.5
ssh(1), ssh\-keyscan(1),dt(1),dtstatus(1),dthost(1),dtcompact(1)

.UNINDENT
.UNINDENT

.SH AUTHOR
Andres J. Diaz <ajdiaz@connectical.com>

.\" Generated by docutils manpage writer on 2009-06-15 19:42.
.\" 
